---
title: gschool Week-7
date: 2013-10-24 18:49 UTC
tags:
---

 Last Thursday marked the end of our first web application project, IdeaBox.  The project started with a simple tutorial and then quickly progressed into a more difficult problem, the extensions.  The extensions for IdeaBox ranged from searching functions, creating users, adding sound and image, etc.  I liked how the project was set up because the extensions allowed you to chooose how you wanted the end result to look and function.  You could take the project in a more front-end visual aspect (css, bootstrap) or really work on the back-end code to get functionality out of the   program.  I chose to do a little bit of both for my project.  

 It was really cool to start exploring building web applications.  Prior to this project, everything we had been doing was pretty command line dependent and sort of difficult to visualize.  By accessing the web, it gave a whole new visual aspect to the code we were actually writing, which was really cool.   

 After finishing the initial tutorial, I began to jump into the extensions.  The first extension was tagging, which was a function that allowed you to tag ideas, and then search by those tags.  I found this extension not to difficult and got through it in a decent amount of time.  After finishing this, I met with my mentor Austen and we worked on refactoring the code I already had.  This mentor session was awesome, and I was able to eliminate quite a bit of extraneous code, which always feels good.  I really started to get an idea of how to refactor existing code by looking at what is being repeated over and over and trying to trim down methods.  After this, I managed to finish a few more extensions. I included searching by title, group description, and day created.  I also utilized bootstrap css to add some flair to my site.  All in all, I was pretty happy with my project.  The only thing I started and didn't finish was users; I got part of the way through and got stuck, so sort of scraped it in order to just tighten up what I already had. 

 Working alone on the project was exciting and difficult.  We were assigned a group to ask for help, which I did utilize and also worked with some other people in class on the project.  I felt like I learned a lot about my own skills and how I am doing thus far.  I feel pretty good about where I am at, but need to keep practicing and working.  It seems like coding is a constant learning process; there is always more to know and more to learn, as long as you are willing to put in the time.  

 I feel good about building web apps so far and feel like I understand Sinatra pretty well but what I really need to work on is testing the web.  My app was only partly tested; most of my .rb files had tests, and I had a few 'GET'/'POST' tests, but not enough at all.  I realized by doing this project just how sensitive web apps can be; I would change one minor thing and the whole app would break.  Obviously this is where testing is both valuable and necessary. So yes, I do think testing is very important and I plan on looking over this a great deal this coming week in order to have a solid test suite built to test my app.  

 If I could go back to the beginning of the project, I would definetly start with a TDD approach.  When I blindly worked through the tutorial, the last thing on my mind was tests, which is something I regret not doing.  When I had completed the project, it became very clear to me how important tests are.  In the future, I don't forsee myself building anything without a solid test suite behind it; debugging my app when something broke could take hours and was often difficult to see why it was breaking, I think testing could have prevented a lot of this headache.  Other than starting over with a solid test suite, the other thing I would do is plan out what I wanted the final product to be before just sitting down and starting to code.  Jumping into coding to quickly without actually thinking about the final product seems like dangerous waters to wade into.  The second time around I would sit down for an hour or so and brainstorm what this app is doing, what it needs to look like, and how it is posisble to make that happen.  I think a brainstorming session is very important.  

 The other thing we did last week for the first time was a code retreat.  We all piled into each others car, drove to The Source(a sort of CO-OP space in Denver with multiple vendors) and took over the bar area.  We were assigned two seperate test suites, "Beer Song" and "Robot".  The goal was to work through the tests with a partner often with the different constraints.  The first round was sort of a free-for-all and you could do whatever you wanted to make the tests pass; however, by the end, the constraints where a lot tighter.  No if statements--after all they aren't object oriented--no talking, etc.  However, my most successful pairing of the day was on "Robot" with Ben H; we couldn't talk and also couldn't write more than one line of code at a time.  This pairing was awesome, and we were able to get through the whole thing which I thought was pretty crazy considering we didn't talk.   

 I really enjoyed the code retreat and thought it was a really cool way to do some coding as well as pairing.  I realized that pairing is awesome and also really important, especially in today's coding world.  It was nice to get out of Galvanize for a bit also.  I'm not really sure what I would of changed about the code retreat; but knowing what it is all about now, I know what to expect and look forward to the next one.   

 All in all, I thought last week was a really great week both for my confidence and my work flow.  I accomplished a lot over the course of the week and was really happy with what I was able to produce.  I look forward to starting the next project and really getting a better understanding of test driven Sinatra development.  So heres to another week down and another project getting started today.       




